# STT353-C-SALI-
Complexity synchronization: a measure of interaction between the brain, heart and lungs

Abstract
Herein we address the measurable consequences of the network effect (NE) on time series generated by different parts of the brain, heart, and lung 
organ-networks (ONs), which are directly related to their inter-network and intra-network interactions. Moreover, these same physiologic ONs have been
shown to generate crucial event (CE) time series, and herein are shown, using modified diffusion entropy analysis (MDEA) to have scaling indices with
quasiperiodic changes in complexity, as measured by scaling indices, over time. Such time series are generated by different parts of the brain, heart,
and lung ONs, and the results do not depend on the underlying coherence properties of the associated time series but demonstrate a generalized 
synchronization of complexity. This high-order synchrony among the scaling indices of EEG (brain), ECG (heart), and respiratory time series is governed 
by the quantitative interdependence of the multifractal behavior of the various physiological ONs’ dynamics. This consequence of the NE opens the door 
for an entirely general characterization of the dynamics of complex networks in terms of complexity synchronization (CS) independently of the scientific,
engineering, or technological context. CS is truly a transdisciplinary effect.


Damage dynamics and the role of chance in the timing of E. coli cell death

Abstract

Genetically identical cells in the same stressful condition die at different times. The origin of this stochasticity is unclear; it may arise from 
different initial conditions that affect the time of demise, or from a stochastic damage accumulation mechanism that erases the initial conditions and
instead amplifies noise to generate different lifespans. To address this requires measuring damage dynamics in individual cells over the lifespan, but 
this has rarely been achieved. Here, we used a microfluidic device to measure membrane damage in 635 carbon-starved Escherichia coli cells at high temporal 
resolution. We find that initial conditions of damage, size or cell-cycle phase do not explain most of the lifespan variation. Instead, the data points to
a stochastic mechanism in which noise is amplified by a rising production of damage that saturates its own removal. Surprisingly, the relative variation in 
damage drops with age: cells become more similar to each other in terms of relative damage, indicating increasing determinism with age. Thus, chance erases 
initial conditions and then gives way to increasingly deterministic dynamics that dominate the lifespan distribution.

Large university with high COVID-19 incidence is not associated with excess cases in non-student population

Abstract
Large US colleges and universities that re-opened campuses in the fall of 2020 and the spring of 2021 experienced high per capita rates of COVID-19.
Returns to campus were controversial because they posed a potential risk to surrounding communities. A large university in Pennsylvania that returned
to in-person instruction for Fall 2020 and Spring 2021 semesters reported high incidence of COVID-19 among students. However, the co-located non-student 
resident population in the county experienced fewer COVID-19 cases per capita than reported in neighboring counties. Activity patterns from mobile devices
indicate that the non-student resident population near the university restricted their movements during the pandemic more than residents of neighboring 
counties. Respiratory virus prevention and management in student and non-student populations requires different, specifically targeted strategies.
